.. blog:published-on:: 2024-11-07 10:00 AM PST

=============
Dev Report #2
=============

Hey, it's been almost a couple of months since the last update and for
a good reason: EdgeDB 6 is shaping up to be an incredible release, and we're
busy making sure it will rock.

* **Dijana** is updating the built-in ai extension with the latest models and
  function calling. Her improvements to our "Ask AI" feature are set to
  ship soon!

* **Andrey**, our new hire, is adding a new extension aptly called
  ``vectorstore`` to make it a one-minute task to use EdgeDB as a vector
  database. He also created adapters for *LangChain* and *LlamaIndex*,
  which we're testing now internally.

* **Scott**, after implementing the new ``net::http`` module and *webhooks*
  support for *Auth*, is maintaining momentum by enhancing security for
  Auth API endpoints.

* **Scott**, **Sully**, and **Zack** are working on separate components
  to add built-in SMTP support for our auth extension for EdgeDB Cloud.
  This will simplify getting started with email-based authentication
  in the cloud.

* **Matt** is living the every Rust's engineer dream -- rewriting existing
  :blog:strike:`perfectly` working software to Rust. Jokes aside,
  EdgeDB 6 will benefit from a new Rust-based HTTP layer, and there's also
  a lot of work done towards rewriting EdgeDB 7 IO completely in Rust.
  We're crossing our fingers!

* Speaking of dreams, **Sully** just realized his by landing an implementation
  of his `RFC <path_>`_ to simplify Path Resolution in EdgeQL. Although this
  can be considered a minor breaking change, it will allow us to evolve
  EdgeQL much quicker.

* **Aljaz** and **Victor** are finalizing the 6.0 mega project: adding
  full SQL support. They're thrilled to spend their days exploring different
  popular ORMs and discovering how we can support them in the best way possible.

* **Aleksandra** has recently created a new `NextJS+EdgeDB <tpl_>`_ template
  that should soon be available on vercel.com. She's now busy preparing us
  for React Summit in NYC on November 18th. Excited to see some of you there!

* **Fantix**, just before he left on 🏝️, finalized his work on a new
  slow queries log feature.

* **Zack** and the cloud team are working on our cloud infra non-stop,
  making sure it operates smoothly, while preparing to ship pretty significant
  internal improvements.

* **Daniel** is about to land a new major functionality to EdgeQL:
  functions that can have ``insert`` / ``update`` / ``delete`` commands in them.

* **James** is almost done with a huge round of updates in our UI.
  Soon you'll be able to show/hide, reorder, and pin columns in Data View.
  He's now busy with creating a UI for slow queries log.

* **Roman** is designing several semi-secret projects, including a page for
  the upcoming Python hackathon (this is a secret!)

.. lint-off

.. _path: https://github.com/edgedb/rfcs/blob/master/text/1027-no-factoring.rst
.. _tpl: https://github.com/edgedb/nextjs-edgedb-ai-basic-template
.. _discord: https://discord.gg/edgedb

.. lint-on
