---
id: aa37b1f0-0017-11ea-9149-d386e8a6bf6f
title: Senior Software Developer, Backend
location: Toronto, Canada
keywords: Python, Cython, Postgres, Linux, asyncio, networking
weight: 100
active: false
---

**November 06, 2019**

MagicStack Inc., is reinventing the relational database stack to
bring the developer productivity to the next level. Join us in our
mission to build the next generation database!

# Role

We are looking for experienced backend software engineers to join our
team in our Toronto offices located at 1235 Bay Street, office 501,
Toronto, Ontario, M5R 3K4.

# Job Duties

* Design, implement and test various aspects of the next
  generation open-source database stack, EdgeDB.

* Collaborate with our distributed engineering team
  and the open-source community to discuss, design and integrate
  new features and tools into our products.

* Improve the quality and performance of EdgeDB.

* Assist in writing technical documentation and other educational
  materials.


# Requirements

* Educational Requirements: Studies in Computer Science or Computer
  Engineering or equivalent experience.

* Minimum 5 years of experience in programming or software developing.

* Robust knowledge of the Python programming language and its ecosystem.

* Solid understanding of Python asyncio paradigms.

* Experience with writing C and Cython extensions for Python.

* Solid understanding of CPython C API.

* Expertise in Linux system administration and networking concepts.

* In-depth understanding of relational databases and
  object-relational mappers.


# Nice to Have

* Experience in writing parsers and compilers.

* Familiarity with Kubernetes or other container orchestration systems.


This is a full-time permanent position (40 hours per week). Language of
work is English. Expected salary will be between $100,000 and $125,000 CAD,
depending on experience and curriculum, along with the possibility of
incremental raises and bonuses. Benefits include 20 days of vacation.

For more information, please contact us at:
[jobs@edgedb.com](mailto:jobs@edgedb.com)

