---
id: e17c9d46-6112-4d4d-bd10-e72409e11d71
title: TypeScript Engineer
location: Remote
keywords: JavaScript, TypeScript, Node.js, Node, Deno
weight: 90
active: true
---

EdgeDB Inc., is reinventing the relational database stack to
bring the developer productivity to the next level. Join us in our
mission to build the next generation of database tooling!

# Role

EdgeDB is committed to providing the best developer experience for working with databases, period. In the case of TypeScript, that means building top-of-the-line tooling.

You will be responsible for maintaining and evolving our client libraries for Node.js and Deno, as well as the [EdgeQL query builder](https://www.edgedb.com/docs/clients/js/querybuilder) for TypeScript.

Byeond that, you will lead the development of future tools. With its object-oriented schema and introspection capablities, EdgeDB is a database that plays nice with modern languages and opens the door to some next-level developer experiences. Some projects you might work on:

- The design of a code generation toolkit/ecosystem on top of EdgeDB
- A baked-in user management libray
- Tools for working with EdgeDB in a "serverless" way where EdgeDB itself handles authorization & authentication, no intermediate server required

These are just a few early-stage concepts. There is a wide design space for improving the experience of working with databases, and we encourage you to come in with ideas of your own!

# Experience

The position will involve the following technologies. Experience in each is preferred but optional unless otherwise indicated.

- TypeScript (required): including advanced concepts like conditional types and type inference
- Node.js (required)
- Deno
- Front-end JavaScript frameworks: e.g. Next.js, Remix
- Edge computing environments (Cloudflare Workers, etc.)

This is a full-time position. For more information, please contact us at:
[jobs@edgedb.com](mailto:jobs@edgedb.com)
