---
id: abcd253c-9728-4b17-a117-6f9ccb4aabcd
title: Compiler Engineer
location: Canada (remote)
keywords: Compiler
weight: 90
active: false
---

We are looking to add team members to our Canadian subsidiary of EdgeDB Inc.
called MagicStack.

EdgeDB is reinventing the relational database stack to bring the developer
productivity to the next level. Join us in our mission to build the next
generation database!

# Position Overview

We are looking for experienced software engineers to join our compiler team
in Canada. You will work on the compiler that is at the heart of EdgeDB, which
translates EdgeQL queries and schemas into PostgreSQL queries and schemas.

# Key responsibilities

- Troubleshoot and resolve issues and bugs.

- Develop new query language and database features.

- Assist with code review and documentation.

- Other assigned responsibilities.

# Qualifications

- Minimum 5 years of experience in programming or software development.

- Proven writing compilers, interpreters, type checkers or other programming
  language tooling.

- Robust knowledge of the Python programming language.

- Strong communication and collaboration skills.

- A degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or a related field,
  or equivalent experience.

# Nice to Have

- In-depth understanding of relational databases.

- Knowledge of OCaml or Rust.

- Experience with writing C and Cython extensions for Python.

- An ability to work in a fast-paced and dynamic environment.

# Why MagicStack and EdgeDB

- Competitive salary and benefits package.

- Opportunity to work on cutting-edge projects and make a significant impact.

- A supportive and collaborative team environment.

- Continuous learning and professional development opportunities.

- Work from the comfort of your home.

# How to Apply

If you are a Compiler Engineer with a passion for technology and a desire
to make a difference and build something new, we would love to hear from you.
Please submit your resume with some information about your relevant
experience to [jobs@edgedb.com](mailto:jobs@edgedb.com).

This is a full-time position. Salary range: $130,000-200,000 CAD annually.

MagicStack is an equal opportunity employer. We welcome and encourage
applications from candidates of all backgrounds.

Join us in our mission to build the next generation database!
